 


 ......................................
 .                                    .
 .       The Interstellar Times       .
 .                                    .
 .      Authors: Dimension Master     .
 .             & Giggler              .
 .                            Vol. 03 .
 ......................................

                SECRETS
                -------


- Video Games -

     On Pac-man there is a hiding place
where the ghosts will never find you as
long as they are not hot on your tail
already.  During this time you can eat
your pizza or whatever.  It is located
on the right side of the "T" shaped
area under the ghost box.  Just slide
into it so that pac man is touching
the "T" on his left and on top of him.
For Ms. Pacman the hiding place is on
the top left gate between sides.  Just
go up the side of the screen and crash
into the wall.  This hiding place is on
the third maze.  On Donkey-Kong Junior
you can get unlimited play for the
small cost of $.50.  What you do is put
the 2 quarters in and choose 2 players.
Play normal with the first guy.  On the
second guys turn however, move junior
on the starting island so one foot is
on the island and one is dangling.
Watch for a snap-jaw to come down the
vine, just as it would touch the water
hit it with junior by jumpin at the
right time.  This will reward both
players with a bonus player.  Keep
doing this with player 2 and you have
and infinite amount of lives.  To pause
in a Dig-Dug game you must kill all the
creatures but one.  Then you must kill
this one twice.  You do this by pumping
him up and let him explode just as a
rock falls on him.  The game is now
frozen.  Many people now put their
initials in dug-out rock.  To resume
play you must commite suicide by being
killed by a rock.  To put Defender on
hold one must get all ten humanoids on
the ground in the same place.  Shoot
down landers and catch humanoids.
Vertically set them down and you can
stack them.  If the 500's next to each
humanoid stops moving then the game is
paused.  To un pause it one must hit
the thrust button.  A way to play
Galaga indefinitely (profided you dont
crash into a bug) is to make so that
the bug cant fire anymore.  This is
achieved by blasting away all bugs
except for 1 blue & yellow guy.  This
bug must be one of the bugs in the left
most formation.  The next step is to
dodge this bug for 15 minutes.  Once
this time is up, he will quit shooting.
Let the bug wrap off the top of the
screen to the bottom 4 times after he
has stopped shooting.  This disables
fire permanently so now you can kill
him and nobody else will fire at you.
You can still die by crashing with a
bug but the game is now easy enough
to get incredibly high scores.

- F.B.I. License Plate Code -

     30% to 40% of the diplomats in the
United States are spies as estimated by
the State Department.  To keep track of
them, the F.B.I. developed a code for
their license plates.  All diplomatic
plates are red, white, and blue and say
diplomat at the top.  They also all
have a "d" on them but the rest of the
letters tell what nation they are from.
Here are the codes:

 Albania      CP     Libya         FM
 Bulgaria     OM     Nicaragua     QU
 China        CY     North Korea   GQ
 Cuba         DC     Poland        QW
 Czeck.       PH     Romania       ND
 East Germany TJ     South Africa  FY
 Hungary      KH     Soviet Union  SX
 Iran         DM     Syria         AQ
 Iraq         TS     Vietnam       LD

- Secret Frequencies -

     Many secret frequencies used by
the government exsist but can only be
picked up on short wave.  Some such
frequencies such as phone calls from
Air Force One arent scrambled and can
be picked up on short-wave radios.  For
Air Force One the frequencies are:

          6,731         13,201
          6,756         13,215
          8,967         13,247
          9,018         15,048
         11,180         18,027

These are all in kilohertz of course.
In addition, 162.685 MHz and 171.235
MHz are Secret Service frequencies used
for Air Force One.  The White House
staff uses 162.850 MHz and 167.825 Mhz.
Secret Service channel "Oscar," 164.885
MHz is used for the Presidents
limousine.  Air Force Two uses the same
frequencies as one.

- The Eye Test -

     The bottom row on the eye test is
"PEZOLCFTD".  The rest of it looks like
this:


                  E                 1
                 F P                2
                T O Z               3
               L P E D              4
              P E C F D             5
             E D F C Z P            6
             -----------
            F E L O P Z D           7ÿ
           D E F P O T E C          8
           ---------------
           L E F O D F C T          9
           F D F L T C E O         10
          P E Z O L C F T D        11

 ......................................
 .       The Interstellar Times       .
 . (C) The Text Department of A.D.E.  .
 ......................................



            ///////////////////////////////////////////////////////
            //               The PIRATES' HOLLOW                 //
            //                  415-236-2371                     //
            //         over 12 Megs of Elite Text Files          //
            //                  ROR-ALUCARD                      //
            //             Sysop: Doctor Murdock                 //
            // C0-Sysops: That One, Sir Death, Sid Gnarly & Finn //
            //                                                   //
            //    "The Gates of Hell are open night and day;     //
            //     Smooth is the Descent, and Easy is the way.." //
            ///////////////////////////////////////////////////////
  Distributed in part by:

   Skeleton Crue  415-376-8060  located out of Moraga, California.
	 !!Get on the band wagon before it RUNS YOU DOWN!!
The very LAST bastion of Abusive Thought in all of the Suburbian West Coast...
			      (CH&AOS)


