Lethal Enforcers II: Gun Fighters

Konami Sends in the Big Guns!

Home, Home on the Firing Range

Overview:
This outstanding cart puts you behind the gun sights on 
the streets of the Old West, with a six-gun in your hand 
and a bushwhackin' bandit behind every saloon door and 
hitchin' post. Konami has taken the celebrated game 
engine of Lethal Enforcers and used it to create the most 
realistic and exciting simulation ever of what it must 
have been like to face off against renegades and 
desperadoes in the days when the Colt was king. It's a 
non-stop, first-person point of view adventure in the 
wild, wild West. And it packs in more showdowns and 
shoot-outs than every Clint Eastwood movie and Louis 
L'amour book combined. Slap leather, Pilgrim!

Publisher:  Konami

Rating: Not Yet Rated

Players:  1 or 2

Controller:  Konami Justifier (recommended), 3-button

Smile When You Play That, Pardner!

The Gunfighters takes you through five different stages, 
each featuring up to eight different levels and a deadly 
boss. You start on the dusty, desperado-infested streets 
of a nameless cow town, armed only with you trusty .45 
revolver. As you work your way through different Old West 
locations, you can pick up more powerful weapons: a 
double .45 rig, a 12-round rifle, a Sharp .50 rifle, a 
shotgun, a Gatling Gun, and a cannon.


Hot Hints:

*	There's a 12-round rifle hidden behind the bank sign.

*	At the beginning of "The Stage Hold-Up", shoot the 
rear rider first, then the rider in front of him, then 
the hombre at the top of the coach.

*	There's a .50 Sharp rifle hidden behind the saloon 
sign.

*	When facing the trio of gun slinging Bosses, keep your 
gun trained on the left one and shoot across the 
screen when any one of them moves.

*	Take your time shooting bottles in the bonus stages. 
Accuracy is much more important than speed.

*	If you see an innocent bystander, use the time to 
quickly reload.

*	Watch the bottom of the train.


