	       Super Magicom File Upload Program (Version 2.1)
			       PONG Utility #1
		     Programmed by R. Bubba Magillicutty



FUNCTION: SEND was written to eliminate the need to translate files before
playing them.  SEND automatically recognizes whether a file is in Super
Magicom or Multi-Game Doctor II format, and whether it is a game, save image,
or DOS file.  All types are sent to the Magicom in the proper fashion.  SEND
will also Load a game so it may be saved to floppy by the Magicom.


USAGE: From the DOS command line, type "SEND" followed by the name of the
game to run of the save image to upload.  If no extension is supplied, SEND
will search for a game or save image in the specified directory with the
specified base name.  Type SEND by itself for help.

Example: To load ZELDA.SAV and ZELDA.SMC, type "SEND ZELDA".  Both will be
uploaded.
         To load STREETFI.TR2 type "SEND STREETFI" or "SEND STREETFI.TR2"
         To load in the SMC-TOOL.SET DOS upgrade, type "SEND SMC-TOOL.SET"


DISPLAY: While the game is being uploaded a small box pops up with the file
name, image format, internal name, file size (in megabits), and a progress
counter.  The counter is in 8K increments to maintain compatibility with
SMS.EXE and the displays on the Super Magicom itself.  For save games, the
name is always "Save Game" and the size is 32K (256 Kbit).


CONTROL: Uploads can be aborted by hitting escape.


KNOWN PROBLEMS: After receiving a Magicom Not Responing error, if you turn
the Magicom off and back on, you will sometimes get a black screen.  You can
still SEND programs with the black screen.  It will reappear during uploading
and everything will work.  Also, hitting reset will fix the problem,
returning the on-screen menu.


OPTIONS:

/1, /2, /3, /4: Causes SEND to use LPT1-LPT4.  LPT1 is assumed if no port
parameter is specified.

/L: Equivalent to Load Game in SMS.EXE.  Loads an image without running it.
If TOOLSET from FAMUTILS.LHA is loaded first, images may be Loaded then saved
to floppy using the on-screen menus.

/R: Sends a Reset code to the Magicom.  This is only useful if a game has
been previously Loaded with the /L option.  If you want to Load an image,
save it to floppy, and then play it, use the /R option after the save to
floppy is completed.

/N: Disables Save File search and auto-load.  Normally, if you use SEND to
upload a game, it will first search for a file with a .SAV extension and the
same base name as the game.  If found, it will be uploaded to the Magicom
first, followed immediately by the game.  This is useful if you play several
games with save ability.  If you have MARIO.SMC and MARIO.SAV, you can send
both to the Magicom by typing "SEND MARIO".  If you don't want to send the
save file, use the /N option.

/H: SEND uses an image's file size to determine how much to upload to the
Magicom.  Images include a one-byte size in the file header, which allows any
game smaller than 16 megabit to be sent.  SMS.EXE uses the header byte to
determine how much to send, and thus can't upload 16 megabit images in one
file.  Use the /H option to force SEND to use the header byte instead of the
file size to detemine how much to upload.  MGD files don't have a header, and
therefore will always use file size.

/S: SEND will automatically identify DOS upgrades, such as TOOLSET or DOS3H. 
If you have a save game that SEND confuses for a DOS image, use /S.  DOS
files will be treated as save games and will be written to save RAM instead
of the Magicom's program area.

/T: If a game is already running on the Magicom and you try to upload a game,
SEND will give a Magicom Not Responding error.  This is preferable to the
lock-ups of versions of SEND prior to 2.0 and SMS.EXE.  However, if for some
reason you wish to disable time-out checking, use /T.  It is conceivable that
the Magicom will not be ready long enough to get a Not Responding error, but
it is very unlikely.  If you get the error and think you shouldn't have, try
using /T.



			       Version History

1.0 - The basic utility.  Could send games smaller than 16 megabit.


1.1 - Special Street Fighter II version.  Allows specially created 16Mbit
      files to be sent.


2.0 - Working mono support
      Correctly identifies and sends save images
      LPT1-4 support
      Save games automatically load before a game unless overridden
      Load without playing option
      Automatic extension searching
      File size used instead of header size, allowing 16Mbit games
      Reset command to play previously Loaded games
      Time-out checking added to avoid lock-ups when a game is running


2.1 - Speed increased considerably over 2.0.  The Time-out checking made
      SEND 2.0 slower than 1.1 and previous versions.  The main send
      routine was optimized, resulting in an approximately 20% speed
      increase over 2.0.  SEND is now 10-15% faster than SMS.EXE.

      Options were rearranged to allow for the /S option
      /T (disable Time-out checking) properly implemented
      DOS image recognition and send, with disable option

